# Breakfast in the Dolomites

## An adventure behind the adventure

### A brief story

#### March 2020

During the pandemic lockdown, I wrote a [BBS system](https://github.com/strawberryfield/BBS) that looks like the ones I used in the early '90s but uses more conteporary systems: 
C#, Entity Framework, Maria DB and a Rapberry Pi 2 as host.

I thought that a game should be great in it, why not an adventure game? 
They were very popular in those years.

Fortunately, the lockdown is over and the project has been shelved.

#### August 2023

In a small town in the Ahrntal, the northernmost valley in Italy, with my family.

It was raining.

The kind reception girl points us to our room, in another building across the street:
“If you don't want to get wet, you can go through here” and points us to a staircase.

We descend the staircase, which is covered with green carpet with rocking horses drawn on it.  
Unbelievably, there was a whole world to discover down there: a reading room with a small library, 
a well-equipped gym, game stations, billiards, table tennis...

The walls were lined with showcases containing toy horses of various origins, 
from the smallest to those too big for a child to ride.

I take out my smartphone and start taking pictures; there are also mirrors to "play" with.

"Playing", I think, what a great setting for an adventure game!

In the evening, I begin to explore the Internet to see if there are any examples I can take inspiration from, 
and to my amazement, I discover that entire development systems for such programs still exist, recently updated.

I also find a very strange language, Inform7, download it and greedily read the manual.

[I carried out various tests, which I report on my site](https://strawberryfield.altervista.org/interactive-fiction/index.php) (in Italian only), 
and finally came up with a little story that I wanted to present at the IFComp to collect opinions and suggestions.

I was ready for any kind of feedback.

### About me

I got my first camera at the age of 8 and have never stopped taking pictures since.

I have been interested in programming since 1981, when I was given a Texas TI-58C calculator. 
Then I moved on to the glorious Commodore 64 and finally to the PCs.  
I have used all kinds of operating systems, hardware architectures and programming languages.

Often my artistic work is a mockery of the environment in which it is developed: 
the [photographic exhibition "The Quantum Photographer"](https://strawberryfield.altervista.org/fq/mostrafotografica-robertoceccarelli-semplicementefotografare-novafeltria.php), where photographers are photographed; 
the ["Taufererbahn" railway simulator](https://taufererbahn.altervista.org/brunico_campotures/taufererbahn_download.php), where a serious simulation environment 
becomes a children's game, and this story, 
where the protagonist's girlfriend reminds him that he is not playing an adventure game.

### A long list of things that could not be appreciated

#### English language

English is not my mother tongue, I know it well enough to understand and produce texts, 
but without the richness of vocabulary that I could have in Italian.  
Syntax and grammatical errors are always lurking, and that is certainly not a good thing.

#### IA generated cover image

To see if the text generated by the program could make the scene look the way I wanted, 
[I used a lot of text sequences as prompts for text2image generators](https://strawberryfield.altervista.org/storie_foto/interactive-fiction-text2image.php) 
(mainly Bing Image Creator, but also Stable Diffusion in Adobe Firefly).

One of these, with a specially edited prompt, was used as the cover; 
I have read some rather negative comments about creating covers with AI, 
but a real photograph (I have lots of them) would not have had the same effect. 

Other images produced in this way are used to illustrate the accompanying booklets.

#### The plot of the story

The aim of Breakfast in the Dolomites is to have breakfast in a hotel in the Dolomites.  
Nothing more, no treasure to find, no mystery to solve, 
you just have to spend time solving some simple (I think) puzzles with the help of a beautiful girl.

A pastime similar to completing a crossword puzzle.

#### The help system

This game doesn't have a help system, 
but your girlfriend or other people will tell or show you what to do.

In any case, the walkthrough is included in the package.


